{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab593
\pard\tx593\pardeftab593\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Tableau Homework - Citi Bike Analytics
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx593\pardeftab593\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Dashboard One - End Station Metrics Dashboard:
\f0\b0 \
\
In Dashboard one, I have presented five visualizations that show trends in popularity among bike stations for ending a ride. The most popular bike station as displayed in the bottom bar chart as well as the map, is Southwater Front Walkway, Station HB103. This is closely followed by station HB101, Hoboken Terminal. \
\
The visualization by map helps you see that the closer you get to the Hudson River, the more active the bike stations are. When broken down by Member vs. Casual User, you can see there is a difference in what stations are being used the most. For a Citi Bike Member, the most common station is Grove St. Path, ID JC005. This is likely due to members using the bikes to get to and from work and home in this area. The Southwater Front Walkway and Hoboken Terminal is most popular for causal bike users. Due to its vicinity to the Hudson River as well as the Central Railroad Terminal, this area is likely more frequented by travelers and tourists which is why there are more casual users.\
\
\pard\pardeftab593\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This information is helpful to know in terms of making sure there is enough slots for returning the bikes available, so users are always able to end their bike ride with ease. Further, knowing the breakdown between Members and Casual users frequency at each bike station, marketing can be geared towards either keeping members or trying to gain new members from casual users.\
\

\f1\b Dashboard Two \'96 July 2021 Day and Hour Trends:
\f0\b0 \
\
In Dashboard two, there are five visualizations exploring the use of Citi Bikes across the month of July 2021. In the first row of charts, we can see that the most popular days for starting and ending bike rides are over the weekend, with Saturday being the highest closely followed by Friday and Sunday. The least common day for bike usage is Monday and Tuesday.\
\
The middle graph explores bike rides over the month by date. Originally, I would have anticipated to see that there was a large usage on July 4\super th\nosupersub , however this was not the top usage day out of the month. Things held steady throughout the month, but the most popular days were towards the end of July. \
\
The bottom two graphs are exploring the most popular times for starting and ending bike rides. The graphs have very similar trends where most rides start and end around 6:00pm. \
\uc0\u8232 Looking at trends by hour is helpful to know in tandem with the most popular bike stations to ensure that enough bikes are present for starting a ride as well as enough open slots for the bikes to be returned with ease.\
\

\f1\b City Official Map:
\f0\b0 \
\
The map plots each bike station and frequency of use for end of bike session. When you look at the map, the closer you get to the Hudson River, the more frequent a bike station is used. This is indicated by the larger plots as well as the deeper blue color. \
\
This information is helpful in planning how many stations are needed and where to place them. This is also helpful in determining which stations need to be closely monitored for ensuring enough bikes are available as well as enough open slots for the bikes to be placed when a ride is completed.\
}